Docs: add Usage Insights documentation (#23982)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/enterprise/usage-insights.md

+++
title = "Usage-insights"
description = "Usage-insights"
keywords = ["grafana", "usage-insights", "enterprise"]
aliases = ["/docs/grafana/latest/enterprise/usage-insights/"]
type = "docs"
[menu.docs]
name = "Usage-insights"
parent = "enterprise"
weight = 700
+++

> # Usage Insights

Reviewer: See previous question about capitalization.

Usage Insights allows you to have a better understanding on how your Grafana instance is used. The collected data are: dashboard views (aggregated and per user), data source errors, and number of data source queries.

> Only available in Grafana Enterprise v7.0+.

> ## Presence Indicators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Presence indicators
```

Reviewer: Per the [Documentation style guide](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/master/contribute/style-guides/documentation-style-guide.md), headings should be in sentence case. That is why the official name and UI capitalization of "Usage Insights" matters.

> Presence indicators are visible to all signed-in users on all dashboards. It shows avatar of users who interacted with the dashboard recently. You can see the user's name by hovering the user's avatar. Users' avatars come from [Gravatar](https://gravatar.com) based on the user's email.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Presence indicators are visible to all signed-in users on all dashboards. A presence indicator shows the avatars of users who interacted with the dashboard recently. You can see the user's name by hovering your cursor over the user's avatar. Users' avatars come from [Gravatar](https://gravatar.com) based on the user's email.
```

> To get more information, click on the `+X` icon that opens the [Dashboard Insights]({{< relref "#dashboard-insights" >}}) drawer. You can see the user's name by hovering the user's icon. Users icons come from [Gravatar](https://gravatar.com).

Reviewer 2: Rewrote to clarify that `+X` is not always present. 

```suggestion
When more users are active on a dashboard than can fit in the presence indicator, click on the `+X` icon to open the [Dashboard Insights]({{< relref "#dashboard-insights" >}}) drawer and see more details about recent user activity. You can see the user's name by hovering the user's avatar. Users' avatars come from [Gravatar](https://gravatar.com) based on the user's email.
```

Author: With your improvements, the order of the sentences felt a bit weird so I rewrote the paragraph instead of commiting your changes. Feel free to add more comments if it's not clear enough!

Reviewer 2: :+1: I agree, your rewrite improves on my changes!

> When more users are active on a dashboard than can fit in the presence indicators, click on the `+X` icon that opens the [Dashboard Insights]({{< relref "#dashboard-insights" >}}) drawer and see more details about recent user activity. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When more users are active on a dashboard than can fit in the presence indicators section, click on the `+X` icon that opens [Dashboard Insights]({{< relref "#dashboard-insights" >}}) to see more details about recent user activity. 
```

Reviewer: "Drawer" is internal jargon. Do not use it in technical documentation.

{{< docs-imagebox img="/img/docs/enterprise/presence_indicators.png" max-width="400px" class="docs-image--no-shadow" >}}

You can choose your own definition of "recent" by setting it in the [configuration]({{< relref "../installation/configuration.md">}}) file.

```ini
[analytics.views]
# Set age for recent active users
recent_users_age = 24h
```

> ## Dashboard Insights

Reviewer: Same question as earlier about capitalization. Be consistent throughout.

> You can see dashboard usage information by clicking on the `Dashboard insights` button in the top bar.

Reviewer: What button is this? Is there an image or can you provide a description?

Author: I added an image with the button highlighted

{{< docs-imagebox img="/img/docs/enterprise/dashboard_insights_stats.png" max-width="400px" class="docs-image--no-shadow" >}}{{< docs-imagebox img="/img/docs/enterprise/dashboard_insights_users.png" max-width="400px" class="docs-image--no-shadow" >}}

It shows two kind of information:

> - **Stats**: shows the daily query count and the errors count for the last 30 days.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Stats:** Shows the daily query count and error count for the last 30 days.
```

> - **Users & activity**: shows the daily view count for the last 30 days; last activities on the dashboard and recent users (with a limit of 20).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Users & activity:** shows the daily view count for the last 30 days; last activities on the dashboard and recent users (with a limit of 20).
```

Reviewer: Is the ampersand actually in the UI? If so, please change it to "and".

Author: Yes there is an ampersand in the UI. Is it okay if we leave it that way now and if I change it on the next dashboard insights rework? I added it here: grafana/grafana-enterprise#546

Reviewer: Yes, that works

+++
title = "Usage-insights"
description = "Usage-insights"
keywords = ["grafana", "usage-insights", "enterprise"]
aliases = ["/docs/grafana/latest/enterprise/usage-insights/"]
type = "docs"
[menu.docs]
name = "Usage-insights"
parent = "enterprise"
weight = 700
+++

# Usage insights

> Usage insights allows you to have a better understanding on how your Grafana instance is used. The collected data are: dashboard views (aggregated and per user), data source errors, and number of data source queries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Usage insights allows you to have a better understanding of how your Grafana instance is used. The collected data are: dashboard views (aggregated and per user), data source errors, and number of data source queries.
```

> Usage insights allows you to have a better understanding of how your Grafana instance is used. The collected data are: dashboard views (aggregated and per user), data source errors, and number of data source queries.

Reviewer 4: I'd make the list of data collected into a bullet point list to make it more clear.

Author: I made an update, changed the sentence a little bit, is it better now?

> Only available in Grafana Enterprise v7.0+.

## Presence indicator

> Presence indicator is visible to all signed-in users on all dashboards. It shows the avatars of users who interacted with the dashboard recently. You can see the user's name by hovering your cursor over the user's avatar. The avatars come from [Gravatar](https://gravatar.com) based on the user's email.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Presence indicator is visible to all signed-in users on all dashboards. It shows the avatars of users who interacted with the dashboard recently (last 15 minutes by default). You can see the user's name by hovering your cursor over the user's avatar. The avatars come from [Gravatar](https://gravatar.com) based on the user's email.
```

> Presence indicators are visible to all signed-in users on all dashboards. A presence indicator shows the avatars of users who interacted with the dashboard recently. You can see the user's name by hovering your cursor over the user's avatar. Users' avatars come from [Gravatar](https://gravatar.com) based on the user's email.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Presence indicators are visible to all signed-in users on all dashboards. A presence indicator shows the avatars of users who interacted with the dashboard recently. You can see the user's name by hovering your cursor over the user's avatar. The avatars come from [Gravatar](https://gravatar.com) based on the user's email.
```

When more users are active on a dashboard than can fit in the presence indicator section, click on the `+X` icon that opens [dashboard insights]({{< relref "#dashboard-insights" >}}) to see more details about recent user activity. 

{{< docs-imagebox img="/img/docs/enterprise/presence_indicators.png" max-width="400px" class="docs-image--no-shadow" >}}

You can choose your own definition of "recent" by setting it in the [configuration]({{< relref "../installation/configuration.md">}}) file.

```ini
[analytics.views]
# Set age for recent active users

> recent_users_age = 24h

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
recent_users_age = 15m
```

It's a good idea to use the default value in examples unless changing the value is required to understand how to change it (as in white labelling footer links).

```

## Dashboard insights

You can see dashboard usage information by clicking on the `Dashboard insights` button in the top bar.

{{< docs-imagebox img="/img/docs/enterprise/dashboard_insights_button.png" max-width="400px" class="docs-image--no-shadow" >}}

> It shows two kind of information:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It shows two kinds of information:
```

- **Stats:** Shows the daily query count and error count for the last 30 days.
- **Users & activity:** Shows the daily view count for the last 30 days; last activities on the dashboard and recent users (with a limit of 20).

{{< docs-imagebox img="/img/docs/enterprise/dashboard_insights_stats.png" max-width="400px" class="docs-image--no-shadow" >}}{{< docs-imagebox img="/img/docs/enterprise/dashboard_insights_users.png" max-width="400px" class="docs-image--no-shadow" >}}

## Improved dashboard search

> On the search view, you can sort dashboard using these insights data. It helps you find unused or broken dashboards or discover most viewed ones.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the search view, you can sort dashboards using these insights data. It makes easier to find unused or broken dashboards or discover most viewed ones.
```
